When I first started looking for phd positions I migth be interrested in, I was quite optimistic that I would surely find something that excites me. And even though I found some interresting job offers that I should qualify for, yours is the first one that truly excites me.
I think machine learning in physics is often done not because it is the best course of action, but because even ordinary results look great when they are not done by a physicist. And if not, there are still those projects that migth not actually be possible, but nobody notices, since we do not expect to understand our models. Even though, I have no definite way of knowing if your exercise matches one of these descriptions, I am fairly optimistic about the first one since deep learning offers a speed that cannot be matched by humans, while still beeing much more flexible than every programm. 
The second description is much more philosophical, as I obviously have no idea if it works, but again I´m optimistic since I believe that nuclear fusion is possible. 
Combine this optimism with a strong interrest in nuclear physics, that may or may not stem from a romantisation of 20th century physics and you have something that I can envision myself doing a lot.
Combine it with a problem which progress is not defined by just meaningless numbers ticking up, but by a possibly working reactor (yes, you see my slightly insane optimism here), and you get me excited.
Finally combine it with a truly useful application, which poses a seriously complicated machine learning problem and you have something I would love to work on.
Enough about why I want to come to marseille, why should you want me to work on nuclear fusion? The quick answer would be that I am a quite capable machine learner. I`ve worked on two ML physics projects, first a network extending the capabilities of the AMS detector, teaching me the basics of machine learning. Afterwards most of my experience comes from anomaly detection. I`ve learned two things from this: Not only understanding what your model does, but also how it works, can be really useful and breaking established rules can sometimes be the rigth choice. This resulted in my networks beeing quite good (see my abstract).
Anomaly detection migth seem like a fairly niche problem, but it is strongly connected to pretty much every other machine learning problem. A tagger for example can be expressed as a set of anomaly detectors and a generative adversial network can be recicled from the same code. Finally also keeping systems stable can be seen as an anomaly detection problem, and so there are applications for example in nuclear safety.
The second thing I have a lot of experience in nowadays are graph neuronal networks. These migth not be so appliable, since they are mostly used to represent datasets with relational information, but depeding on the application, they can be easily trained on very few datapoints (O(100)-O(1000)), which migth be useful in working with rare experimental events.
That beeing said, the drawback of beeing excited in science is that I think the most capable person should get to do it, even when this person is not me. So here are the points you migth not like about me: Firstly, I am not speaking (neirly) any french. I´m not sure if this is a problem: if you are anyhow like my old university, everybody speaks english anyway and learning the language is something I definitely want to do if I study in a different country, but I could understand you prefering a french speaker. Secondly, and most drastically, I dont have a good understanding of plasma physics. Sure I know the basics, but not as much as if I would have written a thesis about it. I dont want to play this down, even though your skill solving machine learning problems is often independent of the actual physics, but given drawback three this migth not be to big of a problem. My third point is the only one that is problematic from my point of view: your extremly long wait time. I think it can soften the previous problems, and I would not be opposed to waiting almost a year for a project I am truly interrested in, but since your application deadline is also not until june, here this would mean waiting for possibly not getting to do it, and so I would love any response from you in before.

With kind regards,

Simon Klüttermann